this is pressure Walker consider a
lottery that involves drawing five
different numbers in order from the
numbers one to sixty your friend gets
the ticket one nineteen thirty two 44:53
and remarque Wow all the numbers are in
increasing order you get the tickets
51:34 sixteen eleven one and say
interesting mine are all in decreasing
order another friend got the ticket
sixty forty fifty thirty two twenty
seven and another guy ten seven twenty
one fifty four sixty but their numbers
were not in either increasing or
decreasing order you wonder how often it
happened what is the probability a
randomly drawn ticket with five
different numbers from the numbers one
to sixty has all of its numbers in
increasing or decreasing order
you can also solve the general problem
what is the probability if the lottery
draws K distinct numbers from the
numbers 1 to n where K is less than n
can you figure it out give this prom a
try and when you're ready keep watching
the video for the solution
so first let's consider any five
distinct numbers ABCDE how many ways are
there to arrange these numbers well the
first number can have any of five
possible choices the next number can be
any of the four the one you haven't used
the next number can be any of the three
choices you have not used then the next
number will have two choices and the
last number will be fixed so there are
five factorial or a hundred and twenty
way to order these five distinct numbers
out of them how many ways are there to
arrange the numbers in strictly
increasing order there's only one way
you have to put the smallest number
first then the next smallest then the
next smallest all the way to the largest
number similarly there's exactly one way
that the numbers can be in decreasing
order it's the opposite of the order in
the increase in case you have to put the
largest first then the next largest then
the next largest and so on until the
smallest number so for any five
particular numbers there are two ways to
have them in either increasing or
decreasing order out of a possible 120
ways that you could order them so the
probability for a given set of five
numbers it's 2 out of 120 or 1 out of 60
which is approximately 1.7 percent now
notice this probability applies to every
single set of 5 numbers therefore the
overall probability for the lottery will
be 1 out of 60 or approximately 1.7
percent we don't even need to know the
different number of ways that you could
draw the five numbers we simply know it
applies to any set of five numbers and
therefore this will apply to the entire
sample space now we can solve the
general problem similarly
4k drawn numbers there are K factorial
possible ways to order the numbers of
which to our successes there is exactly
one way to place them in increasing
order and one way to place them in
decreasing order thus the probability is
two divided by K factorial
we know that applies to a specific set
of K numbers and it will apply to any
set of K drawn numbers so the
probability in the general case is two
divided by K factorial did you figure it
out thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch around my blog mind your decisions
which you can follow on Facebook Google+
and patreon you can catch around pulser
media app pressure Locker if you liked
the video please check out my book there
are links in the video description